Prelude Obeisances: Om! I invoke the name of the half-man half-lion, the great lion, the divine lion, the greatly powerful, the terrifying lion, the Lord of Lords!

Refrain: Glories to Lord Nrsimha, Laksmi Nrsimha, All Glories to Lord Nrsimhadeva. The Lord of Prahlada, like a honeybee, is always engaged in beholding the lotuslike face of the goddess of fortune.

1) Glories to the half-man half-lion, the great lion, the divine lion, the greatly powerful, the terrifying lion, the lord of lords, the lord appeared from the pillar with terrifying eyes.

2) Glories to the Lord who is angry, wonderful in everyway, beautiful, source of yogic bliss, Vamana (three great steps), takes our troubles away, roaring (Varahadeva), who carries the disk, always victorious, and increasing glories.

3) Glories to the five-headed Lord, Supreme Absolute Truth, not horrible, terrifying activities, effulgent face, with effulgent garland, most effulgent, Supreme Master (not different than Lord Caitanya).

4) Sri Nrsimhadeva possesses all good (moral) qualities, is thousand-eyes, difficult to see (difficult to look at), oppresses His enemies with great heat, great teeth, intelligent in battle (ready to fight), angry moon, and is all auspicious.

5) He destroys Hiranyakasipu, destroys masses of demon and giants, wonderful qualities (gentleman!), very auspicious, auspiciously powerful, and extremely auspicious.

6) Oh one with wide open mouth, with very wide open mouth, who performs wonderful activities, who performs ALL activities, Matsya,  Soul of the three worlds, controller, supreme controller, and the best.

7) He causes terror by roaring in the sky, divine, infallible, intelligent (poet), husband of Laksmi, beyond understanding (or explaining), infallible, everything, wears a garland of forest flower, and bestower of boons.

8) He wears garland of forest flowers, grants boons, maintains the universe, wonderful, determines the future, He is the future, all pervading, Supreme Enjoyer, never wounded by weapons, with nails for weapons, source of Suns rays, and Lord of the demigods.

9) He is the Thousand-Armed One, the All-Knowing One, awards all perfections, lightning-like teeth, lightning like nails, source of supreme bliss, and the source of all energy (heat).

10) Although One, he appears as the many mantras, He destroys all machines (demoniac arrangements), the essence of all tantras, the unmanifested, the wonderfully manifest, and kind to His devotees.

11) He appeared during waxing moon of Visakha, kind to those surrendered to Him, universally famous, the essence of piety, the great personality, and moonlike performer of great deeds.

12) He is the three Vedas, supreme worshipable, Supreme Personality of Godhead, Supreme Controller, marked with sign of Laksmi, pervades the entire universe, and makes the material world seem real.

13) Protector of the universe, Lord of Universe, moves in the air, has double form (man-lion), Supersoul, source of Brahma, transcendental qualities (not part of material nature), and man-lion.

14) He is the Supreme Absolute Truth, the Supreme Abode, the form of truth, eternal knowledge, and bliss, The Man-Lion Form together with Laksmi-devi, universal soul, sober (never bewildered), and the protector of Prahlada Maharaja.

15) Thus concludes the versified prayer of the one-hundred eight names of Sri Sri Laksmi Nrsimhadeva. The devotee who reads this prayer three times daily will obtain all desirable goals.