1) If you want to be rid of the influence of the dog-like personality of kali, then just sing the glories of the beautiful Son of Mother Saci (Saci-nandana). He is the Savior of the kali-yuga (Kali-yuga Pavana), and He is (Kali-bhay-nasana), the destroyer of all fear caused by the age of quarrel.

2) He maddens Sri Gadhadara with His name, (Gadadhara-madana) He is the treasure of the life of Sri Nityananda Prabhu (Nita'yer Prana-dhana), and He is the most worshipable object of Sri Advaita Acarya (Advaiter Prapujita). He is affectionately named Nimai by His mother, due to being born under a Nim tree, and He has been named Visvambhara by His grandfather. He is the only Lord of Sri Srivasa (Srinivas-isvar), and He steals the hearts of all the assembled devotees (Bhakta-samuha-cita-cora).

3) Lord Caitanya is the moon over Nadia (Nadiya-sasadhar), the Lord of Sri Mayapura-dhama (Mayapura-isvar), and the divine propagator of His own name (Nama-pravartana Sura). He is the instructor of family men (Grhijana-siksaka), and He is also the hero of those who are in the renounced order (Nyasi-kula-nayaka). He is the husband of the Goddess of Fortune (Madhava), and He is over-flowing with the ecstatic moods and sentiments of Srimati Radharani (Radha-bhava-pura).

4) Lord Caitanya is the corrector and purifier of Sarvabhauma Bhattacarya (Sarvabhauma-sodhana), and the deliverer of King Prataparudra (Gajapati-tarana), the source of nourishment of Srila Ramananda Raya (Ramananda-posana), and He is a great hero (Vira). He increases the ecstasy of Srila Rupa Gosvami (Rupananda-vardhana), He is the maintainer and protector of Srila Sanatana Gosvami (Sanatana-palana), He gladdens Haridasa Thakura (Haridasa-modana) and He is very grave (Dhira).

5) Lord Caitanya is the source of all the transcendental mellows of Vraja-dhama (Braja-rasa Bhavana), He is the destroyer of all mischievous and wicked mentality (Dustamata-satana), and He dissolves the mundane lust of the deceitful insincere souls by His causeless mercy (Kapati Vighatana Kama). He maintains and protects His pure Vaisnava devotees (Suddha-bhakta-palana), and He chastises dry speculative knowledge (Suskajnana Tadana). He destroys pretentious and hypocritical devotion (Chala-bhakti-dusana), and He is the reservoir of pleasure (Rama).