1) O Govardhana, O king of all incomparable great mountains, O hill that became an umbrella with the arm of your own Lord as the handle and then destroyed the pride of the deva king madly attacking with raised weapons, please grant the residence near you that is so dear to me.

2) O Govardhana, please grant to me the residence near you that will guarantee the sight of the youthful divine couple as they enjoy passionate amorous pastimes in your caves.

3) O Govardhana, O hill where Lord Krsna happily plays with Balarama and His friends in the incomparable jeweled courtyards, jeweled lion-thrones, trees, waterfalls, mountain-brooks, caves, peaks, and valleys, please grant the residence near you that is so dear to me.

4) O Govardhana, O hill that provides the dark courtyard that witnesses the dana-keli pastime of the nectar-treasure youthful divine couple, O hill that brings great bliss to the best of they who relish transcendental nectar, please grant to me residence near you.

5) O Govardhana, O hill that, hiding as you playfully embrace the neck of your dear friend, Lord Hari's dear, unprecedented Radha-kunda, secretly gazes at the pastimes of the youthful divine couple, please grant to me residence near you.

6) O Govardhana, O hill that by nourishing the cows with its water, grass, and the shade of its trees declares to the three worlds the appropriateness of its own name, please grant to me residence near you. (Govardhana means "that which nourishes (vardhana) the cows (go).")

7) O Govardhana, O hill that the enemy of Agha and Baka honored by transforming into a new house to give Vraja protection from the sustained fury of the sura king please grant to me residence near you.

8) O Govardhana, O king of mountains, O hill whose nectar name "the best of Lord Hari's servants” flows from the moon of Sri Radha's mouth, O hill that the Vedas declare to be the tilaka marking of Vraja, please grant to me residence near you.

9) O Govardhana, O philanthropist that gives transcendental happiness to Vraja's people, animals, and birds, all anointed with the nectar of friendship for Sri Sri Radha-Krsna surrounded by Their friends, out of Your immeasurable mercy, please accept unhappy me and please grant me residence near you.

10) Although I am a cheater and a criminal, unlimitedly merciful Lord Sacinandana, who is very dear to you, has given me to you. O Govardhana, please do not consider whether I am acceptable or not, but simply grant me residence near you.

11) One who carefully reads these ten nectar verses describing Srila Govardhana, the king of mountains, will very soon reside near that blissful hill and quickly attain the precious jewel of the service to the handsome divine couple. 