1) The lotus feet of our spiritual master are the only way by which we can attain pure devotional service. I bow to his lotus feet with great awe and reverence. By his grace one can cross the ocean of material suffering and obtain the mercy of Krsna.

2) My only wish is to have my consciousness purified by the words emanating from his lotus mouth. Attachment to his lotus feet is the perfection that fulfills all desires.

3) He opens my darkened eyes and fills my heart with transcendental knowledge. He is my Lord birth after birth. From him ecstatic prema emanates; by him ignorance is destroyed. The Vedic scriptures sing of his character.

4) Our spiritual master is the ocean of mercy, the friend of the poor, and the lord and master of the devotees. O Lokanatha Goswami! O master! Be merciful unto me. Give me the shade of your lotus feet. Your fame is spread all over the three worlds.

5) By making the dust of the Vaisnavas' feet the ornament of my body, ecstatic love comes.  Washing the Vaisnavas' lotus feet is my method of worship.  By always associating with the Vaisnavas, I shall overcome the darkness of ignorance.

6) O Srila Sanatana Gosvami and Srila Rupa Gosvami, who are two deep wells of the nectar of pure love, two personifications of the splendid nectar of the Divine Couple, and two desire trees by whose mercy the entire world is free from suffering, all glories to you!

7) In your books, you two great souls clearly described prema-bhakti.  You are reservoirs of the sweet nectar of the Divine Couple.  Hearing about you brings bliss to the heart. Their sweet mellows are my shelter.

8) You are fabulously wealthy, possessing ecstatic love for the youthful Divine Couple, a love more precious than gold purified in ten thousand flames.  O Rupa and Sanatana Gosvami, all glories to you!  I beg you, please give me in charity some of these jewel necklaces.

9) I shall eternally engage in the nine-fold process of devotional service, which is the essential message of Srimad-Bhagavatam, and I shall not worship the demigods.  O brother, I say to you: Devotional service is the most exalted kind of worship.

10) Making the words of the guru, sadhus and sastras one with my heart, I constantly float and swim in the ocean of pure love.  I am different from the karmis and jnanis, who have no devotion for Krsna.  Narottama speaks the truth